Contributor/runtime, first version (#105)
decentraland/documentation: content/contributor/auth/authchain.md

---
title: Authentication Chain
url: /contributor/auth/authchain
weight: 2
---

Many actions in the Decentraland protocol either require or benefit from authorization with a signature from the user's Ethereum account. For example:

> 1. Upload a new version of any entity they own (such as their profile).

Reviewer: [[entity]] maybe?

3. The `signature` is empty.

For example:

```json
// First step in any authentication chain:
{
  "type": "SIGNER",
  "payload": "0xdB055877e6c13b6A6B25aBcAA29B393777dD0a73",
  "signature": ""
}
```

The second step must carry a `signature` from this account for its `payload`.

### Intermediate Steps: Delegation

When delegates are acting on the user's behalf, an item is added to the middle of the chain for each of them. The conditions for these steps are: 

1. The type is [`ECDSA_EPHEMERAL`](#ECDSA_EPHEMERAL)
2. The `payload` is a specially crafted text (see below).

The `payload` is designed to be easy to read and easy to parse, since both humans (when using their wallet UI) and programs (when crafting and validating) must work with it. It contains exactly 3 lines of case-sensitive plain text:

```md
<purpose>
Ephemeral address: <delegate-address>
Expiration: <date>
```

For example, this is a typical payload used by World Explorers during login, when they generate their temporary delegate key for the user to approve:

```
Decentraland Login
Ephemeral address: 0xBB9aDF0183b1742196A4Aa55622D5838f4f483a7
Expiration: 2023-02-25T13:00:19.730Z
```

Note that:

> 1. The `Ephemeral address` doesn't need to be an actual Ethereum account with funds in the blockchain. The field only represents a temporary public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `Ephemeral address` doesn't need to be an actual Ethereum account with funds in the blockchain. The field might only represent a temporary public key.
```

  // The signature is produced by the account in the previous step (user or delegate):
  "signature": "0x7e71dbbab..."
}
```

If this last signature is also valid, the action can proceed.

### Transmitting a Chain {#transmitting}

As mentioned above, the most common serialization of an authentication chain is a JSON array. This is the recommended approach.

However, the protocol does not impose this. Developers are allowed to use an alternative serialization strategy if it's more convenient for a particular use-case, such as YAML, CSV files, optimized binary formats or simple strings with delimited fields.

An example of alternative serialization from within the protocol itself can be found in the [`SignedFetch`]({{< ref "/contributor/runtime/modules/signed_fetch" >}}) module, which uses a sequence of HTTP headers instead of a JSON array.

### Choosing an Expiration Date

When selecting the valid duration for a delegate key, there's a tradeoff: shorter expirations increase security, but longer expirations improve user experience (since delegates have to be renewed with human interaction at a lower frequency).

> There is no universal strategy to decide what the valid time window should be. The Foundation's World Explorer, for reference, requests authorization for its delegate key for one month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no universal strategy to decide what the valid time window should be. The Foundation's World Explorer, for reference, requests authorization for its delegate key for one month.

Additionally, ephemeral keys should never hold funds, or the ability to move digital assets. Although technically possible, it's much safer for users if losing an ephemeral key never leads to financial losses. 
```
